add documentation to explain how to deploy cilium on k0s (#22029)
cilium-team/cilium: Documentation/installation/k0s.rst

.. only:: not (epub or latex or html)

    WARNING: You are looking at unreleased Cilium documentation.
    Please use the official rendered version released here:
    https://docs.cilium.io

> .. _k3s_install:

Reviewer: CI workflow also caught this: You have to update the reference target above.

**********************
Installation k0s Using k0sctl

> **********************

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*****************************
Installation k0s Using k0sctl
*****************************
```

This guide walks you through installation of Cilium on `k0s <https://k0sproject.io/>`_,
an open source, all-inclusive Kubernetes distribution, 
which is configured with all of the features needed to build a Kubernetes cluster.

Cilium is presently supported on amd64 and arm64 architectures.

Install a Master Node
=====================

> The first step ( after installing the k0sctl binary obviously :) ) is to prepare the yaml configuration file k0sctl will use :

Reviewer: Nothing particular against the smiley, but I don't think we're usually using them in the docs so it feels a bit strange to me to have one here.

```suggestion
The first step (after installing the k0sctl binary obviously) is to prepare the yaml configuration file k0sctl will use:
```

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # we assume that you have deployed:

>    # - 3 vms with the default user "k0s" using the default ssh-key (without passphrase)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   # The following command assumes the user has deployed 3 VMs
   # with the default user "k0s" using the default ssh-key (without passphrase)
```

   k0sctl init --k0s -n "myk0scluster" -u "k0s" -i "~/.ssh/id_rsa" -C "1" 192.168.2.1 192.168.2.2 192.168.2.3 > k0s-myk0scluster-config.yaml
   

> Next step is editing `k0s-myk0scluster-config.yaml` :  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next step is editing ``k0s-myk0scluster-config.yaml``:
```

> .. code-block:: shell-session

Reviewer: This is no shell code. Just a literal block.

```suggestion
Next step is editing ``k0s-myk0scluster-config.yaml``::
```

   # replace 
    ...
      provider: kube-router
    ...
   # with
    ...
      provider: custom
    ...

Finally apply the config file:

.. code-block:: shell-session

   k0sctl apply --config k0s-myk0scluster-config.yaml --no-wait
   
   
.. note::

   If running Cilium in :ref:`kubeproxy-free` mode disable kube-proxy in the k0s config file

.. code-block:: shell-session

>     # edit `k0s-myk0scluster-config.yaml` :  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # edit :k0s-myk0scluster-config.yaml: 
```

>     # replace 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # replace
```

     ...
        network:
          kubeProxy:
            disabled: false
     ...
    # with
     ...
        network:
          kubeProxy:
            disabled: true
     ...

Configure Cluster Access
========================

For the Cilium CLI to access the cluster in successive steps you will need to

> generate the ``kubeconfig`` file, store it in ``~/.kube/k0s-mycluster.config`` and setting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
generate the ``kubeconfig`` file, store it in ``~/.kube/k0s-mycluster.config`` and set
```

.. only:: not (epub or latex or html)

    WARNING: You are looking at unreleased Cilium documentation.
    Please use the official rendered version released here:
    https://docs.cilium.io

.. _k0s_install:

*****************************
Installation k0s Using k0sctl
*****************************

This guide walks you through installation of Cilium on `k0s <https://k0sproject.io/>`_,
an open source, all-inclusive Kubernetes distribution, 
which is configured with all of the features needed to build a Kubernetes cluster.

> Cilium is presently supported on amd64 and arm64 architectures.

Reviewer 2: This statement about platform support is generally true, but having this statement here in these docs makes it more likely that we will forget to update this if we change the set of supported platforms. Should amd64/arm64 platform support be mentioned on some more central page, maybe https://docs.cilium.io/en/latest/operations/system_requirements/ ?

.. code-block:: shell-session
   export node1-IP=192.168.2.1 node2-IP=192.168.2.2 node3-IP=192.168.2.3

Prepare the yaml configuration file k0sctl will use:

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # The following command assumes the user has deployed 3 VMs
   # with the default user "k0s" using the default ssh-key (without passphrase)
   k0sctl init --k0s -n "myk0scluster" -u "k0s" -i "~/.ssh/id_rsa" -C "1" "${node1-IP}" "${node2-IP}" "${node3-IP}" > k0s-myk0scluster-config.yaml
   

Next step is editing ``k0s-myk0scluster-config.yaml``::

   # replace 
    ...
      provider: kube-router
    ...
   # with
    ...
      provider: custom
    ...

Finally apply the config file:

.. code-block:: shell-session

   k0sctl apply --config k0s-myk0scluster-config.yaml --no-wait
   
   
.. note::

   If running Cilium in :ref:`kubeproxy-free` mode disable kube-proxy in the k0s config file

.. code-block:: shell-session

    # edit k0s-myk0scluster-config.yaml

    # replace
     ...
        network:
          kubeProxy:
            disabled: false
     ...
    # with
     ...
        network:
          kubeProxy:
            disabled: true

>      ...

Reviewer 2: I think that the instructions to disable kube-proxy should perhaps be indented further to match the indentation aligmnent of the "If running ..." sentence, so that they show up inside the note box. You should be able to test this out and ensure it shows up inside that box by using `make render-docs` locally.

.. only:: not (epub or latex or html)

    WARNING: You are looking at unreleased Cilium documentation.
    Please use the official rendered version released here:
    https://docs.cilium.io

.. _k0s_install:

*****************************
Installation k0s Using k0sctl
*****************************

This guide walks you through installation of Cilium on `k0s <https://k0sproject.io/>`_,
an open source, all-inclusive Kubernetes distribution, 
which is configured with all of the features needed to build a Kubernetes cluster.

Cilium is presently supported on amd64 and arm64 architectures.

Install a Master Node
=====================

Ensure you have the k0sctl binary installed locally.

Setup your VMs:

How to do this is out of the scope of this guide, please refer to your favorite virtualization tool.

> After deploying the VMs, export their IP addresses to environnement variables (see example below). These will be used in a later step.

Reviewer 3: Sorry if I wasn't clear in my previous message: `environnement` is a genuine spelling mistake, it should be `environment` instead. So this should be fixed + removed from `Documentation/spelling_wordlist.txt` ;)

Author: haven't seen this mistake, will fix ASAP

.. only:: not (epub or latex or html)

    WARNING: You are looking at unreleased Cilium documentation.
    Please use the official rendered version released here:
    https://docs.cilium.io

.. _k0s_install:

*****************************
Installation k0s Using k0sctl
*****************************

This guide walks you through installation of Cilium on `k0s <https://k0sproject.io/>`_,
an open source, all-inclusive Kubernetes distribution, 
which is configured with all of the features needed to build a Kubernetes cluster.

Cilium is presently supported on amd64 and arm64 architectures.

Install a Master Node
=====================

> The first step (after installing the k0sctl binary obviously) is to prepare the yaml configuration file k0sctl will use:

Reviewer 2: Please explicitly request the user to install k0sctl, something like:

```suggestion
Ensure you have the k0sctl binary installed locally.

Prepare the yaml configuration file k0sctl will use:
```

The first sentence should give a link to the install docs upstream. It could be placed above the "Install a Master Node" title.

> The first step (after installing the k0sctl binary obviously) is to prepare the yaml configuration file k0sctl will use :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step (after installing the k0sctl binary obviously) is to prepare the yaml configuration file k0sctl will use:
```

.. code-block:: shell-session

>    # The following command assumes the user has deployed 3VMs

Reviewer: My bad on the first pass

```suggestion
   # The following command assumes the user has deployed 3 VMs
```

>    # with the default user "k0s" using the default ssh-key (without passphrase)

Reviewer 2: This seems like something that should be an explicit step, something like "Set up your VMs. How to do this is out of scope of this guide. After deploying the VMs, take note of the IP addresses of the VMs on the local network. These will be used in a later step.".

You could even get the reader to define an environment variable with these here, then later on in the k0sctl command just replace the current hard-coded IP addresses with the variable.

   k0sctl init --k0s -n "myk0scluster" -u "k0s" -i "~/.ssh/id_rsa" -C "1" 192.168.2.1 192.168.2.2 192.168.2.3 > k0s-myk0scluster-config.yaml
   

> Next step is editing ``k0s-myk0scluster-config.yaml`` ::

Reviewer: I think we need to remove the space if we want the colon to show up here. But that's not really important anyway.

```suggestion
Next step is editing ``k0s-myk0scluster-config.yaml``::
```

   # replace 
    ...
      provider: kube-router
    ...
   # with
    ...
      provider: custom
    ...

Finally apply the config file:

.. code-block:: shell-session

   k0sctl apply --config k0s-myk0scluster-config.yaml --no-wait
   
   
.. note::

   If running Cilium in :ref:`kubeproxy-free` mode disable kube-proxy in the k0s config file

.. code-block:: shell-session

>     # edit :k0s-myk0scluster-config.yaml:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # edit k0s-myk0scluster-config.yaml:  
```

Sorry, my mistake on the previous suggestion. No colon needed here.
